Project brief

We are in the process of creating a full, rootless X11 server to run on MacOS 26 or later using Swift to handle the MacOS side 
with metal doing the rendering.  The X11 protocol side should be implemented in C++, with a shim layer between the protocal 
and SWIFT in either C++ or C.   The model is queue driven, with two separate queues: an X11 event queue on the C++ / C side 
that handles the protocol, and a request queue filled on the C(++) side and drained on the Swift side to handle the
rendering.  The X11 protocol is handled by a set of "Ops" objects that register a callback with a XProtoRegistrar object, 
and that callback function then routes the requests to the appropriate event handler.  Initially you were having me develop 
the X11 protocol in a small set of C files, but those were rapidly growing unwieldy and hard to parse and maintain.  We were
in the process of transitioning from those C files to an object-oriented C++ implementation before we further develop the X11 
protocol.

Current status

We were well along in the process of moving all of the drawing events from the C to the new structued C++ implementation
that allows drawing of the eyes in the xeyes program.  We had not yet implemented any mouse tracking functions, just the
drawing.  I believe we were you had completed the migration of the drawing operations needed for xeyes to migrating the rest
of the infrastructure from C to C++, perhaps leaving the shim itself in C.  But the conversation ended before you could tell
the exact plan for the next steps.  But the next milestone will be to complete that transition and then complete the
remaining protocol implementation for xeyes.  Note that we have changed courses from an initial design that was heading 
towards a single large C++ file to the current design.  Some of the files with nothing implemented may be left over from 
that initial design and we may want to eliminate.

While you initially had me download xorg_server, it doesn't seem to me that we are making use of it.  Would it perhaps be more 
efficient to use that vetted code to get to the full implementation, perhaps through hooks in the C++ structure that we are 
developing?

Intermediate goals

After completing the migration to C++ and implementing enough of the X11 protocol to fully support xeyes, we should then
proceed through support of xclock and xterm to build up the complexity.  As well as introducing handling of more X11 event
types, this may also involve updating some of the current implementation that was initially kept at the minimum to support xeyes.

Long term goal

Of course a full implementation of X11 would be the most desired goal, I would settle for smooth running of the vivado and vitis 
fpga programming environments, which I would run from a docker linux container.

Programming environment

We are developing the project in XCode v26.2.  The application is called SwiftX11, and that target has all of the swift code.
The X11 protocol is being developed under a subtarget "X11LowLevel".
 
